an American history teacher being told
he would not be returning for a second
year at Lawrence high school in Lawrence
Kansas
he claims it's because of his
conservative political views that
teacher Tim Latham joins us along with
two of his former students Chloe Mercer
and Liz cry Bell good morning to all of
you good morning Steve morning girls
Tim let's start with you I understand
that you know and and there's not one
thing that led to your dismissal but it
kind of built up and one of the things
your your assistant principal said was
hey Tim your website is just too
patriotic why is that a bad thing
that's a good question there was several
links on there to different military
websites to Arlington National Cemetery
there was all kinds of stories and links
to terrorist attacks around the world
and on the United States including two
or three major ones on on 9/11 I was
told to remove those in my teacher page
where I'm talking about myself and my
educational philosophy I've got a line
in other words say I want students to
learn to love the American Way of life
and I was told to remove that well let's
take a look at this controversial
passage that they wanted out from your
web page you write I love history and
government so when you step into my
class be ready to learn more than you
ever thought you would and enjoy it too
I want you to love your country live the
experiences of those who came before to
truly love the American Way of life not
just get caught up in grades yep that's
pretty that's pretty offensive also is
it true that you were accused of
comparing Obama to Hitler by somebody
yes sir and I was actually speaking with
these young ladies and some other
students over this last couple weeks and
the individual who made that accusation
has been told has actually recant
and admitted she made it up and admitted
she lied because she was mad at me for
that day whether she will come forth and
admit it to the administration I don't
know let's let's talk to the girls Chloe
you had this guy as your teacher did you
think he was leaning way to the right or
was he right down the middle I think he
was right down the middle he made sure
to listen to everybody's opinion and to
listen to both sides of every argument
and not leaned it either side so he was
very right down the middle and Chloe we
should point out that politically you
probably lean to the left you were
you're a liberal you know you embrace
the liberal agenda and for you to say
that about him that says something yeah
I never felt like I could never say what
I wanted to say he was always listening
and he valued everybody's opinion yeah
that's the kind of teacher you don't
want on the staff Liz what did you think
about your teacher I loved his class we
got to make political ads for the
candidate of our choice and he always
let us decide where we stood on every
issue it was up to us and he never
pushed his beliefs on us oh that's
fantastic
Tim tell me who was it who said look you
just don't fit in here when I finally
got a meeting with the director of human
resources because the administration at
the high school never told me that I was
been non-renewed I've had two meetings
with them and both top both times they
told me there was no plans to non-renew
me I got the phone call from the
director of human resources and finally
NEA rep got me a meeting with him face
to face and we sat down and went over
everything and so he decided to look
into it more and when he called me back
and told me they were gonna go ahead and
renew me he said okay you've got the
basic skills of a teacher but you refuse
to conform and you just don't fit in so
he was the one that told me that the
administration said that about me well
here is a statement from the school
district they say Lawrence high school
does not discriminate against any person
because of their political or personal
beliefs on the contrary for a student's
benefit we encourage and support the
robust debate of both political and
social issues
that from Randall Weissman I think
that's his name Tim do you agree with
that do you believe that statement no no
not after what I went through this year
yeah no kidding all right well it'll be
interesting to see what have a job for
next year
no I do not we're almost out of time but
you know I'm kind of late to this party
I'm only here because of these students
they're the ones that started this going
and so I you know if they could fight
for me I can fight for myself
all right well thanks for explaining
your case and good luck to you and girls
we thank you very much there you are
seated in the front seat in front of the
teacher live from Kansas City all right
have a good summer girls all right
straight ahead on Fox and Friends for
Monday from Gitmo to parrot